Good afternoon.
The issues of corporate security are in front of any company in business,
regardless of what this company does.
These may be financial issues, production issues,
or services, but in any case, security issues are there and they need to be solved.
The construction of corporate security systems is individual,
depending on the company's features, on the threat,
but there are common approaches to the construction of corporate security systems.
It is built from separate subsystems, which are called information security,
personnel security, technical security, economic security, and other subsystems.
We will talk about these subsystems and how corporate security systems are built
in today's seminar.
The topic of our seminar is corporate security, organization and management practices.
The first topic we will discuss today is the general issues of building a corporate security system.
These are quite general issues, but without them you will not be able to build a corporate security system.
What does a person or a department that deals with corporate security issues usually start with?
The first thing they usually start with is the creation of a document.
The document can be called in different ways, I have encountered different names for this document.
The classic name of this document is the concept of ensuring the company's security.
This is a conceptual document, it is quite theoretical, but it is tied to the real company,
to the real threat, to the real object, subject, and so on.
This document is created, it is usually quite voluminous, it is about 30-40 pages.
In a mandatory order, it must be approved by the company's management.
This can be done either through an order or through a confirmation letter.
The next step is to implement this concept.
The implementation of this concept also starts with the creation of some documents.
Basically, these are either programs or plans.
The classic version is a classic plan.
It usually goes for a year, a list of events, responsibilities, money, deadlines, execution date, and so on.
In order to create this concept, it is necessary to determine some circular stones that exist.
What do I understand under the circular stones?
I will use this board and write it down.
These are objects.
The first thing used is the objects.
What is determined?
These are security objects.
It is quite difficult to ensure the security of everything that exists.
Therefore, some security objects are usually determined and then their security is carried out.
If we take a standard version of the organization, what do they usually understand under the objects?
The first thing is finance.
In any case, a company has certain financial resources.
It can be cash, cashless money, shares, bonds, and so on.
If this money is invested in the wrong place, if it is stolen, then it is clear that a company will have certain problems.
Therefore, finance is usually an object of security.
To a greater extent, this applies to organizations that work with other people's money.
To a lesser extent, it applies to companies that work with their own money.
Nevertheless, in almost all companies, financial resources and funds are security objects.
This can be staff.
In the vast majority of companies, with the exception of a few, people work.
If these people resign, get sick, get killed, or something happens to them, it is clear that the company will have problems.
Staff also tends to commit some illegal actions, so staff is an object of security.
It can be information resources.
There are no companies in business where all information resources are open.
All existing information resources are open.
As a rule, all information resources of a company are divided into two large groups.
These are open information resources and information resources with limited access.
I will tell you more about this in the topic of information security.
Now I will just emphasize that information is an object of security in the vast majority of cases.
It can be material values.
The vast majority of companies have certain material values.
This can be the case with virtual companies.
These are warehouses with ready-made products, tables, chairs, cars, buildings, etc.
It is also clear that if this is burned or taken away, then the company will have certain problems.
Basically, everything related to the protection of material values is a security block.
I want to say that in the vast majority of companies, material values are objects of security.
These can be business processes.
Any business activity consists of business processes.
This is what the company earns money on.
Basically, business processes are also objects of security.
This is not only the case with the security unit.
Many companies are engaged in the protection of business processes.
The security service or the employee on the line of corporate security has certain tasks.
This is the block called economic security, which we will talk about later.
This can be the reputation of the company.
Unfortunately, the technologies of black PR are well developed and well-rounded.
Therefore, the threats that come to the business from the side of black PR are real and must be protected.
Here you can include protection against the misuse of trademarks, if it is a patented brand.
Here you can include protection against fake products, which are also not uncommon in our market.
Therefore, security issues are often crossed out by the protection of the company's reputation.
You can suppress the company in different ways, you can do it economically, legally, illegally, and so on.
You can do it with the technologies of black PR.
This is an object of security.
There may be other security objects.
This is a standard approach to this problem.
It is necessary to assume that each company can define its own security object.
Now, the second round stone that must be determined before the concept of security is formed.
These are the subjects.
The subject of security.
Who will deal with the security issue?
If you determine a huge number of security objects, but do not determine who will deal with them, then it will be pointless.
In commercial structures, there are several levels of approach to security objects.
As I said in my opening statement, corporate security issues are in front of any company.
Therefore, in any case, a certain subject must be determined.
If we take the first level, I call it the bottom level, then this is the management.
Who is engaged in the first level?
This is the management.
In companies where security objects are not determined, the manager decides these issues.
I can't say that this is a good option, because the management has something to do with security issues.
But in some companies, mainly small companies, which do not have a lot of money to spend on security,
which do not have many threats, this level may be acceptable.
When the company grows, when the threats intensify, when there is something to lose,
when there is money to spend on security, then the second level is applied.
I will not write the word level.
This is a work in partnership.
I call it a work in partnership.
That is, a certain official who exists in the company jointly issues a security issue.
What official should I ask these questions to?
There are different approaches.
You can ask this question to some deputy director.
I often came across the head of the legal department, who asked these questions.
This is a work in partnership.
As with any work in partnership, it is not very effective, because it is very difficult to sit on two chairs,
to perform work in two directions at the same time is quite difficult.
Therefore, in cases when there is an opportunity, the third level is applied.
The third level is a separate position.
A separate position.
How this position will be called is not so important.
You can come across the practice of a security assistant,
maybe a deputy security director,
or maybe just some completely non-speaking position as a consultant or advisor.
The most important thing is that this is a separate position.
A person who occupies this position solves security issues.
That is, his main functional duties are to solve security issues.
It should be noted that one person cannot do serious work.
Therefore, this position is usually an organizing position.
That is, a person attracts organizations that provide these services in various areas of security.
And this person who occupies this position is responsible for this and coordinates this work.
This is a very common and widely applied option.
There are a variety of this option.
I would call it the fourth level.
This is a security council plus a separate position.
Security council.
Plus a separate position.
What is a security council?
Usually, it is a kind of advisory body that is formed in an organization according to its positions.
For example, all the heads of departments of a company are included in this security council.
It can periodically gather once a year, once a month, once a quarter, depending on the need.
It can develop a certain ideology of security, develop a certain direction of activity.
And a person who occupies this separate position will carry out these requirements and decisions that this security council produces.
This is also a fairly common and effective option.
There are levels 5 and 6.
The fifth level is the customer service.
The sixth level is the security service.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of the fifth and sixth levels?
What is customer service?
In fact, this is a classic outsourcing.
There are quite a few security holdings that provide these services.
The company becomes the basis of a certain contract for the maintenance of this holding.
And the security holding solves all the security issues of this company.
The security service is a structural division of the company.
There are certain features.
Licensing is required, a charter is required, which is agreed upon by the internal affairs agencies.
This division is not a legal entity, but the founder of the company in which this security service is created.
Perhaps, the security service is the best option that is possible in commercial structures.
In what cases do they usually create a security service?
First, the security service is a fairly expensive enterprise.
Therefore, the security service is necessary when there is a serious threat and when there is money to neutralize these threats.
The security service is usually created when there are different areas of activity.
I have encountered a security service that consists of one person, one boss.
It seems to me that this is quite pointless.
It is necessary to create a security service when there are different areas of activity.
It can be a security area, a detective area.
What is the advantage of the security service?
The advantage is that the information and activities of the company on the corporate security line do not go anywhere.
This is its own division and the information does not go anywhere.
Unlike outsourcing, where the information is initially supposed to be transferred to another organization.
Everything related to corporate security is closed, so it is not always convenient and good.
Outsourcing is a relatively inexpensive event.
It is much less expensive.
The disadvantage of outsourcing is that it is closely related to a certain contract.
The company with this security holding is a contract.
Only within this contract is interaction carried out.
The security service is its own structural division.
It can be asked some questions.
For example, what is the nature of the company?
What will you never do within the framework of outsourcing?
The disadvantage of the security service is that it requires a license.
It requires a consent from the internal affairs agency.
It requires a certain bureaucracy.
The inspectors from the licensing and authorization system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will come.
This is a fairly bureaucratic system.
But this is a certain officio, this is a certain official relationship, including from the internal affairs agency.
What to choose?
The company must decide for itself.
There are no universal solutions applicable to the entire company.
It is necessary to look at the situation based on the threat, based on the money, based on the demand for expediency.
In some cases, it is necessary to create a security service.
In some cases, it may be limited to either a separate position,
or the establishment of a subscription service with some security holding.
This is the second point that you must determine for yourself
before creating this concept of security.
The next cornerstone that you must determine is the goals and tasks of security.
The goal is the same for all organizations that operate on the security line.
The goal is the stable functioning of the company.
As a rule, where the company functions steadily,
including the well-working security service,
where there are problems, some losses on the line of operation of the company,
including the poorly functioning security service.
The achievement of this goal is based on different tasks,
on the solution of different tasks.
It can be protection of information, it can be protection of business processes,
depending on the objects that we have determined for ourselves.
The goal of the security system
Now we will move on to the section that explains
what the system of corporate security should consist of,
that is, the structure of corporate security.
I draw it in the form of a wall that encircles the company,
a wall that holds the circular defense around the company,
a wall that consists of individual bricks, individual elements.
These bricks, these elements can be more or less,
but to some extent they should be present when you build a system,
namely, a system of corporate security.
It is clear that if there is not enough brick in the wall,
there will be a hole, then the construction of this wall will be ineffective.
Therefore, we will draw it as a brick wall in the form of bricks.
As a rule, when this wall is built,
one central brick is allocated,
that is, based on the threat, one large central brick is chosen.
And around it, the rest of the bricks are built.
The structure.
These bricks that I will draw now,
I draw them for the sake of simplicity of understanding.
Because it is clear that in real life they can find each other,
they can intersect, they can duplicate each other.
But nevertheless, the most important thing is that to some extent
all these bricks are present in this wall.
The first brick.
The first does not mean that it is the most important,
it will just be the first.
Because in every company, the main brick is naturally its own.
Let's call it information security.
Information security.
The term information security is quite fashionable.
It has been fashionable since 2000,
when the doctrine was adopted,
there is such information security of the Russian Federation.
What is information security?
It is the state of security of the company's information resources.
This is the ultimate goal,
this is the state of security.
This information security is achieved by a process
called information protection.
What is the complexity of this brick?
The complexity is that, first of all,
you need to look at what forms the information takes.
Because information can take many different forms.
These can be documents,
which can be on paper,
they can be on electronic media,
this can be electronic information.
Information can be in people's heads,
this is also information that needs to be protected.
Information can be in the form of industrial waste,
this is also some kind of information that needs to be protected.
When they start to create this brick,
which is called information security,
the first thing they do is to determine the information that needs to be protected,
and the second is to build the forms in which this information can be presented.
And they build protection based on these forms.
The complexity is that the vast majority of information resources
are now in electronic form,
so to speak, information security has a certain angle,
which is connected with the protection of information presented in electronic form.
We will talk in more detail in the section called information security.
How is it built?
What directions of building this brick are related to information security?
I will draw it here.
If the information is presented in the form of material or paper documents,
and in general in the form of documents,
then it is necessary to create a confidential production case.
One of the directions is a confidential production case.
A confidential production case.
The second direction is...
I have already said that a lot of information resources,
closed information resources are presented in electronic form.
The second direction is IT security,
that is, the protection of information resources presented in electronic form.
IT security.
Information, protection of information can be organized by measures.
Therefore, the so-called organizational measures are widely used.
Organizational measures.
Or events.
Under the organizational measures,
this is a fairly large set of events.
You can even include the restriction of access to information,
control and access regime in the company, video surveillance.
These are all some kind of organizational measures of information protection.
In organizational measures,
this is the breaking of information into parts.
These are also organizational measures of protection.
If you have some information,
a formula that you want to protect,
then it is broken into parts,
let's say, into several parts.
These parts are territorially divided.
That is, one part is located in one city,
the second part is located in another city,
the third part is located in a third city.
And different people have access to these parts.
Therefore, the criminal, in order to get all this formula,
all this information,
has to collect it from different people
and from territorially divided objects.
Which is naturally much more difficult
than if this formula was in one place.
This is a classic division of information into parts,
a classic organizational principle of protection.
This was used quite widely before.
And now, if we remember how the secret of Coca-Cola was protected,
then one of the methods was in the 1920s or 1930s,
it was an organizational one.
This formula was really divided into three parts.
Each of these parts had access to only a certain number of people.
Here, the direction is legal measures.
Legal measures.
In order to create information security,
this block called information security,
legal measures can also be applied.
For example, if you create a commercial secret regime,
that is, if, having read the law of commercial secrecy,
you decided to create a commercial secret regime,
then you must apply some legal measures.
Approval of a list of information,
creation of certain instructions,
these are legal measures.
I will stop at technical measures.
These are technical measures.
Technical measures.
These are technical measures for the closure of various channels of information leakage.
Basically, this is protection against industrial espionage.
In order to ensure that information does not go through
some technical solutions on technical channels.
And here I would probably add another point.
These are personnel measures.
Personnel measures.
That is, information is in people's heads in any case,
and to conduct some events,
that is, personnel measures,
so that people who know your commercial secrets,
know your classified information,
so that they do not disclose it.
This is a whole complex called personnel measures and personnel events.
I will tell you more about them when we talk about personnel security.
So, the first brick.
The second brick.
Let's call it personnel security.
Personnel security.
So, threats, I already said, I will remind you a little more,
which come from a person.
There are basically three groups of threats.
This is the enforcement of illegal actions,
this is the disclosure of information,
and this is the enforcement of incompetent actions.
Therefore, basically, all events aimed at personnel security,
they are divided into three large groups.
These are measures related to protection
from committing illegal actions.
Committing illegal actions.
Well, illegal actions, of course,
are those actions that violate certain rules of law.
First of all, these are actions that fall under the articles of the Criminal Code,
the Administrative Code, the Labor Code, and so on.
This is protection from disclosure of information.
From disclosure of information.
In principle, if you go into detail,
disclosure of information is a private case of committing illegal actions.
But in personnel security, this area is distinguished separately,
simply because it is quite relevant and has a certain specificity.
This is, of course, disclosure of confidential information,
that is, information with limited access.
And the third area is protection from incompetent actions.
Protection from incompetent actions.
This is not really a question of the security service.
As a rule, protection from incompetent actions
does not take part in the security service,
although sometimes it is involved in this direction.
The threat coming from this direction is really real,
because you can build a very powerful,
very modern, good security system,
but incompetent people will simply ruin the company,
and whatever security you build, it will be completely ineffective.
A little bit about the peculiarity of this brick,
which is called personnel security.
First of all, this is the biggest,
and as a rule the most problematic,
and the weakest link in the entire security system.
The vast majority of problems that the company has
are related to personnel security.
There is a certain statistic,
that according to the disclosure of information,
about 80-85% of the information,
the classified information,
is either used by personnel security,
or by incorrect documents.
And only about 15% of the information
is used by other means,
like industrial espionage, hackers, and so on.
Why does this happen?
It is clear, because the use of industrial espionage equipment,
well, first of all, its use is immediately
subject to the corresponding articles of the Criminal Code,
which is not good for the customer.
And second, the equipment of industrial espionage
is quite expensive.
To get the same information,
you can use a much simpler,
more accessible method.
Well, to take the right person to a restaurant,
to drink vodka, then wine, then beer,
and get the same information.
Without violating any articles of the Criminal Code.
We do not take the scrimmage component.
And this method of obtaining information
can be much cheaper
than the use of industrial espionage equipment.
Therefore, as a rule, everything related to
personnel safety is quite relevant.
The peculiarity of this brick is that
it is quite stable,
that is, it changes very slowly.
Everything related to personnel safety is psychology.
Psychology of people changes very slowly.
The methods of influence of one person on another,
as they were in ancient Rome,
probably remain the same.
The same bribery, the same blackmail,
the same insult.
Maybe some torture left the first place,
but the second or the third.
And personnel safety issues
are solved approximately the same
regardless of what the company does.
That is, whether it is financers,
whether it is manufacturers,
whether it is the service sector,
personnel safety issues are solved approximately the same.
But the psychology of people working in different organizations
is approximately the same.
Unlike, say, some technical solutions
that can change very quickly
and which are built individually
depending on what kind of company.
This is personnel safety.
This is a brick called personnel safety.
There is a brick,
let's call it the third brick.
It is also related to the human factor.
The third brick is personnel safety.
Personal safety.
Personal safety is mainly applied
to the first persons of the company
in order for them to work,
make some decisions.
These decisions were provided
with a certain level of safety.
Basically, everything that concerns
personal safety is built in three directions.
This is physical protection.
Physical protection.
This is legal protection.
Legal protection.
This is psychological protection.
Psychological protection.
Legal protection.
Physical protection is the work of bodyguards.
This is the provision of body safety.
There are a lot of problems
related to the legal side.
Unfortunately, according to our legislation,
bodyguards work, they exist.
Unfortunately, there are no bodyguards in the legal side.
When I will talk about the principles
and the principle of legality,
I will talk about it in detail.
Legal protection is the legal provision
of decision-making by the company's management.
Basically, this is the work of lawyers.
If the lawyers have done poorly,
it is the work of lawyers.
This is the legal provision
of decision-making by the company's first person.
Psychological protection is the work of psychologists.
This is the psychological provision
of decision-making
so that people who make decisions
make decisions in a state of psychological stability,
psychological balance,
so that there is no decision-making
in a state of some kind of effect.
Basically, this brick is built
in these three directions.
Of course, it can be further painted
as some kind of safe food,
safe swimming and everything else.
But usually this is not done,
it is quite expensive.
And in the best case,
in the maximum version of commercial structures,
personal security is built
in these three directions.
The fourth brick
is called economic security.
Economic security.
I have already said that economic security
is basically the security of business processes
that take place in the company.
This brick is built,
which is called economic security,
depending on the business processes.
I also focus on economic security.
Economic security is not only
the security service,
but many departments
that are present in the company.
If we build economic security
from the position of the security service,
then, as a rule,
this is the business intelligence.
Business intelligence.
This is the direction
of the security service.
What is business intelligence?
I will describe it in two words.
There are different terms.
There is the concept of business intelligence,
there is the concept of competitive intelligence,
there is the concept of corporate intelligence,
business intelligence.
In fact, this is information analytics.
These are two directions.
This is the collection of information,
this is its analysis.
There is an operational direction,
but in fact, this is information analytics.
From the point of view of economic risks,
from the point of view of checking
the compatibility of the partner,
and everything else.
There is a direction,
the so-called economic management,
and the minimization of economic risks.
Management and minimization.
Economic risks.
This is not always done by the security service,
although it is attracted to solving this problem.
For example, to minimize economic risks
from the point of view of duplicating
some economic processes.
If there is only one raw material supplier,
then it is clear that this is an unstable system,
and from the point of view of security,
these are risks, these are threats.
As soon as this supplier is lost,
the supply of some materials is lost.
There should be duplication.
Supply duplication,
supplier duplication,
consumer duplication, and so on.
What is the security service doing?
Basically, this is protection against fraud.
Protection against fraud.
Here we are talking about fraud
not from the point of view of the company staff,
but from the point of view of other organizations
and fraud from the point of view of other legal entities.
Well, maybe, for example,
protection against hostile absorption.
Hostile absorption.
This is also a fairly fashionable term,
protection against hostile absorption.
What is hostile absorption?
This is the control over the company's assets
in the face of the company's owner,
the company's management.
There are different schemes.
There are white schemes,
there are gray schemes,
there are black schemes.
Security services are involved in solving issues
to protect against hostile absorption.
I draw your attention to the fact that they are involved
because many issues are related to lawyers,
many issues are related to the company's management.
Basically, this is informational work,
this is a relationship with state bodies,
including the police,
to protect against hostile absorption.
This is physical protection of the building,
so that the company does not physically gain access
to the company's territory, and so on.
Now, in general, protection against hostile absorption
is quite relevant,
although, in my opinion,
this peak has already passed in Moscow,
now it is slightly shifting to the regions.
This is already a secondary redistribution of property on the market.
This is for economic security.
There is a direction of technical security.
Basically, technical security,
these bricks,
are divided into three large groups,
into three components.
This is engineering and technical security,
this is technical security,
and this is IT security.
The fifth brick.
This is engineering and technical security.
Technical security.
What is engineering and technical security?
Engineering and technical security,
in fact, is engineering and technical equipment of the territory.
Depending on the territory,
depending on the object,
engineering and technical security
is built in different directions.
Although there are some common approaches,
some common points,
which are connected with measures.
I will draw like this, as I usually do.
This is fire safety.
Fire safety.
This is relevant for any company,
because every day something burns down somewhere.
Fire protection,
fire safety,
is also one of the components of corporate security.
At any exhibition,
at a security technology forum,
there will be stands dedicated to fire safety.
Here it is clear what needs to be done,
because there are certain requirements from firefighters,
these requirements are desirable to be met.
Now there are a lot of measures for fire safety,
starting with fire paint, doors, stickers, fire extinguishers,
and so on.
There are a lot of measures.
They just need to be implemented.
There is a video surveillance system.
The installation of video surveillance systems
is an integral part of engineering and technical security.
The most effective is a combined video surveillance system.
Some video cameras are installed openly,
some are installed secretly.
There are some legal issues
where video surveillance ends,
where surveillance as a operational event ends,
and where surveillance as a security television begins.
In general, this mechanism is well developed,
and video surveillance is widely used.
There are a lot of companies that provide these services.
Here, too, it is clear what needs to be done,
based on a specific task and a specific goal that you want to achieve.
The next area is the control and pass mode.
Control and pass mode.
It is clear that if outsiders visit your enterprise,
then you don't have to talk about serious security.
Therefore, the control and pass mode
is a component of corporate security
and a component of engineering and technical security.
There are a lot of technical solutions of the control and pass mode.
These are widely used ASCUT systems,
automated access control systems.
They are used when you have a large number of people,
more than 300-400 people at the enterprise,
large factories.
These ASCUT systems are very effective.
In small companies, where there are few people,
some simplified manual control and pass modes are used.
The control and pass mode involves not only the control of people
who enter the enterprise,
but also the creation of zones based on the principle of confidentiality.
There are some zones in the form of floors,
where only certain employees can enter.
It can be for a certain employee,
it can be for a certain time,
that is, you can be there for a certain time,
and you can't be there for a certain time.
All this is decided by the control and pass mode.
There is a measure, there is a direction,
which is called perimeter protection.
Naturally, where these perimeters exist.
First of all, it is relevant in those enterprises,
which produce something valuable and useful for employees.
For example, a meat plant, a liquor and vodka plant.
The security of the perimeters can be relevant.
Some consulting companies,
that is, a company that represents the service sector,
these problems can be put aside and not be so relevant.
There can be engineering and technical security.
These are the most diverse alarm systems.
Alarm systems for finding, opening windows, doors, etc.
There is a very large variety of them.
In principle, there is a methodological feature.
The distribution of these alarm systems is given.
Engineering and technical security can be in some other direction.
It depends on the object.
This is engineering and technical equipment territory.
This brick.
And the other two bricks.
I will also focus on them.
The sixth brick.
This is technical security.
Technical security is mainly a protection from information leakage channels.
I talked a little about it in the section on information security.
But very often this brick is allocated as a separate component.
From a physical point of view,
there are three channels of information transmission.
This is the acoustic channel.
What is said can be heard.
This is the visual channel of information leakage.
What happens can be seen.
This is the electromagnetic channel of information leakage.
Where there are electrical signals,
where information is transmitted through electrical signals,
there is electromagnetic radiation,
which has a tendency to pass through different barriers.
It can be recorded.
This is also like a channel of information leakage.
The vast majority of the equipment of industrial espionage that exists,
it uses any of these channels of information leakage.
Therefore, technical security is built on the protection of these three channels of information leakage.
Protection from the acoustic channel of information leakage.
Protection from the visual channel.
And protection from PEMIN.
There is such a term.
PEMIN is a side electromagnetic radiation.
Now, in general, there are many companies on the market that provide these services.
Basically, they are positioned in the market of information protection.
Companies that, from a technical point of view,
not from a personnel point of view, not from a legal point of view,
but from a technical point of view,
protect these channels of information leakage.
And the last brick on which I will dwell is the seventh brick.
This is IT security.
IT security.
What is the situation?
Now this brick is gaining more and more popularity and more and more importance.
What is IT security?
This is the state of security of the company's information resources presented in electronic form.
The complexity of this brick.
Firstly, it changes very quickly.
Unlike, for example, personnel security, which I mentioned, it changes very quickly.
Literally every day there are new technical solutions,
new threats, new viruses, new protection and everything else.
A person who deals with IT security should sit on it every day.
That is, to do IT security, just by reading a book or going to an exhibition,
this is unrealistic, this is pointless, unfortunately, no one does this.
Therefore, IT security should be a separate, well-trained person who will constantly do this.
The difficulty is that this IT guy who deals with IT security is a thing in itself.
It is very difficult to understand what he does, to understand an unprepared person.
There have been cases, this is a serious problem,
when if an IT security person is subordinate to the head of the security service,
then the head of the security service may not understand what the IT security person is doing.
Just because he does not have enough experience, or even education.
Therefore, unfortunately, this is a certain thing in itself.
There are approaches, personnel approaches to select a specialist in IT security,
organizational approaches, what he can do, what he cannot do.
There is an audit of IT security, which is desirable to apply,
including for control of its IT security.
Basically, IT security is solved in three directions.
This is all about network protection.
That is, the protection of information resources, which are in the company, in network solutions.
This is the protection of autonomous information resources,
or information resources presented on autonomous carriers.
Protection of autonomous information.
Protection of information.
And this is the protection of information that is transmitted through scattered objects.
That is, when you need to transmit information from one city to another,
using the Internet or some other information systems.
That is, the protection of information when transmitted between scattered objects.
Protection of information when transmitted.
What should I pay attention to?
If we consider some trends, what is the trend?
The information resources of the company are now about 50 to 50.
50% are presented in material form, in the form of documents, papers.
And 50% are presented in electronic form.
If we take 10 years ago, then basically all information resources were presented on paper,
that is, on material carriers.
I think that in 10 years the main type of information resources,
the main type of carriers on which there will be information resources,
will be electronic.
That is, everything will be presented in electronic form.
Material carriers will probably be in the form of some archives or duplication.
If we look at this problem from the point of view of security,
from the point of view of protection,
then what can be predicted and what can be looked at?
Look at what are the trends.
If we take some paper document,
how is it protected?
In principle, it is protected only by access protection.
The maximum you can do with it is lock it in some safe.
Put an armed guard to the safe.
All this is in some controlled territory.
That is, you protect access to this document.
Any security system is initially considered imperfect and imperfect,
because in any case, all this can be hacked.
As soon as the safe is hacked and the document is obtained,
this document is presented in an open form.
That is, we do not have any secret inscriptions,
secret ink, disappearing, and so on.
They are there, but in everyday life they are usually not used.
If we take an electronic carrier,
that is, some kind of electronic array of information,
then the direction of protection is built on two strategic lines.
That is, protection is built directly on access,
in the form of access restrictions,
in the form of electronic identifiers,
in the form of some kind of biometric identity recognition systems.
And the second direction is protection of the document itself.
What cannot be done with paper.
The protection of the document itself is mainly done with cryptography,
that is, cryptographic means of protection.
If in a simplified version,
some information is taken,
a kilobyte or megabyte of information is divided into 10 parts,
all this is done in a very simplified version.
These parts are re-piled up,
the tenth part is on the second,
the second part is on the fourth,
the fourth part is on the first.
Thus, a certain encryption of the document occurs.
The value of the document is not lost from this.
That is, it is possible to decrypt in the future,
that is, to put these parts in place,
and the value of the document will be preserved.
That is, there will be the same document.
What cannot be done with paper.
You cannot tear it,
re-pile it,
preserving the value of the document.
This is possible,
but the value of the document naturally disappears from this.
Therefore, the direction of protection of information resources
presented in the electronic form is more modern,
and can be done more perfectly,
because it will go in different strategic directions.
If we talk about the destruction of documents,
if you have 10 volumes of materials that need to be urgently destroyed,
and they are presented on paper,
then you will not eat them,
tear them,
and destroy them in a short time.
If you have the same 10 volumes of materials,
presented in the electronic form,
then you can do it all
in a matter of seconds,
and you will be guaranteed from not being restored.
Even from this point of view,
from the point of view of the destruction of documents,
electronic documents,
they are much more convenient to work with,
and to a greater extent they can be protected.
So, the walls and bricks,
they are already individual,
depending on what the company does.
That is, if you have some kind of factory,
which produces something
and some waste is poured into the river,
then, probably,
environmental safety issues will be relevant.
There is some kind of sea port,
environmental safety issues
could be relevant.
But, as a rule, in the standard version,
these are just the classic bricks,
the classic subsystems
for the construction of the operating safety system.
Now, at one more point,
I would like to draw your attention
to the principles that must be observed
when organizing
the corporate safety system.
There are quite a lot of them.
At some points,
I will focus more on the details,
at some I will just talk about
the fact that they exist.
But, I say again,
the principles are necessary for the implementation.
The principles.
The first principle
I will probably stop at
is the principle of legality.
Legality.
I will not call for
compliance with legality,
this is not the topic of my seminar.
Just keep in mind
that everything you do
on the corporate safety line
is always clear whether you do it legally
or illegally.
The reason is simple and banal.
The legislation on corporate safety
is, unfortunately,
very imperfect.
The main law on which
corporate safety lives
is the law on private security
and detective activity.
The law that was adopted
in 1992,
that is, before the Constitution was adopted,
before the law on weapons,
on the police, on the State Security,
on security, and so on.
The law was adopted as a transitional law.
It was clear in the early 90s
that the state was not able
to protect the emerging business.
It was adopted, I would say,
quite a political decision
that corporate security
would be the direction of business.
I note that this is a political decision
because the law
on the protection of the business
is not a political decision.
For example, in Belarus,
corporate security
does not exist in the form
that it exists in Russia.
It is a state-owned business.
It was decided that
corporate security
would be the direction of business.
Naturally, it was necessary
to create some temporary rules
for this business.
And this law was created
on the private security
and detective activity.
This law was temporary.
It was written on the knee.
Unfortunately, there is nothing
more permanent than temporary.
This law has existed
since 1992.
It has undergone changes,
but nevertheless it exists.
In general, we have very few laws
that have remained since 1992.
As a rule, all the legislation
in the early 90s has already been rewritten.
Therefore,
unfortunately,
the law on corporate security
is not perfect
from the perspective of the regulatory base.
I have already given examples
of bodyguards.
We have bodyguards.
There is even such an organization
as the National Association of Bodyguards.
But they do not exist.
You can contact the CHOP,
which provides services
for the physical protection of people,
that is, for the work of bodyguards.
CHOP will give you bodyguards.
But do not be surprised
that the contract that will be concluded
will be concluded on the protection
of material values.
According to our law,
there is protection of life
and health of people,
but a bodyguard,
if he is protected
by the contract of life and health of a person,
can only be armed
with special means,
such as a whistle, a baton, and so on.
It is clear that no respected businessman
wants his life to be protected
by a person with a whistle and a baton.
It is clear and obvious.
Therefore, all the contracts that are concluded
are on the protection of material values.
That is, what is on a person,
such as a gold chain,
a watch, a briefcase
with documents,
is located near a person.
In reality, this is the work of a bodyguard.
Although according to the documents,
this is the protection of material values.
It is clear that if, God forbid,
a bodyguard uses firearms,
if he kills someone,
he will have a lot of serious problems.
Therefore,
unfortunately,
the legislation is very imperfect.
Many questions arise
about the limitation
of the termination of
operational events,
where the events
that are held by the security service begin.
Can the security service
listen to corporate telephone
and negotiate with employees?
Where is the video surveillance system installed?
Can the video surveillance system
be installed in the toilets or not?
There are a lot of questions,
including legal ones.
There are some algorithms,
some solutions.
But keep in mind
that everything you do
on the corporate security line
is a very thin line
between legality and illegality.
This is in relation to legality.
The second principle
that is desirable to be implemented
is the complexity.
Everything you do
on the corporate security line
must be done in a complex.
Complexity implies
ensuring the safety
of all objects
that you have identified
and the complexity implies
ensuring the security
of all objects
that you have identified
and the complexity implies
ensuring the safety
of all objects.
I have personally encountered
a case when a person,
a company manager,
installed a cryptographic
protection of computer information
about 10 years ago.
Nevertheless,
it was not effective
because the documents
that he protected
with cryptography
were printed
and were lying on the tables,
under the tables,
in the garbage bins,
etc.
It was clear
that the principle of complexity
was violated.
It was ineffective
and unwise
to install expensive
systems of the SCIS
and the so-called
cryptographic protection
of the computer information
in the database.
Therefore,
try to apply
this principle of complexity.
There is a principle
of temporariness.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
You should always take
one step
towards the potential
violator.
There is a saying
that it is too late
to drink borscht
when the kidneys fall off.
It is very relevant
in the field of security.
As soon as something
happens,
you start thinking
about it.
It is based on experience.
Unfortunately,
it is not always
the case.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
There is a saying
that it is too late
to drink borscht
when the kidneys fall off.
Unfortunately,
it is not always the case.
The next principle
I would like to point out
is the principle of temporariness.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
If we say that bodyguards
guard the body for 20 minutes,
and then drink
beer for 20 minutes,
then we do not have to
guard this person.
If this person
is guarded for 8 hours
at work,
and then he goes to the next yard
to take out the garbage in his slippers,
then we do not have to
guard this person.
Therefore, everything that will be done
in the field of corporate security
should be done in advance.
As a rule, the principle of temporariness
or the problems with the principle of temporariness
or the breakdown of this principle
are associated with a human factor.
There is a guard
in the face,
for example,
the head of the security service.
When this head of the security service
goes around, checks everything,
the system works.
The head of the security service
leaves,
goes to a seminar,
the system starts to malfunction.
The principle of temporariness
can be violated in the time factor.
During the day, everything works well,
at night, when there is no one,
everything can work badly.
It can be violated by a natural factor.
On the street, let's say, 0 degrees,
everything works well,
on the street, minus 30,
everything starts to work badly
and the equipment fails.
The principle of corporative security
is based on this.
Everything you do should work continuously.
There is a principle of activity.
I will not dwell on it.
There is a famous saying
that the best defense
is an attack.
Therefore,
it is about
everything you do
in the case of corporate security,
it should be done actively.
The principle of systematic plannedness
says that you should create
a system.
There should not be
individual elements of corporate security,
but a system of corporate security.
Everything that is done
in the line of corporate security
should be done in a certain way.
There is a very relevant
and problematic principle
related to the principle of purposefulness.
The principle of purposefulness
assumes that
the money you invest
in the system of corporate security
will not allow you
to make a profit.
The management of the company
understands this very clearly.
You have a profit.
If you invest
in the development of the production,
it will allow you to make a profit.
If you invest
in security,
you will not make a profit.
You can only get protection
from losses.
Therefore,
losses that can be made
if you do not spend
money on security are always considered.
When the question arises
how much money to spend on security,
it is always based on losses.
If the loss is equal to 100 rubles,
it makes no sense to spend
1000 rubles on security.
This is often the case.
I gave an example
of a store.
You can reduce the theft
to a very small amount,
but the money you invest
in the development of the equipment
will be economically ineffective.
The losses will be much less
than the money you will spend
on the technical equipment
of the store.
There is a principle
that is widely used in security.
This is the duplication principle.
The duplication principle.
Let's recall an old joke.
Then it turned into a plot from Yarolash.
When a little boy
was asked to buy two tickets,
his grandmother asked him
why he was buying two tickets.
He said that he would go to the controller
and lose one ticket.
He would have a second ticket.
The grandmother asked him
if he would lose a second ticket.
He replied that he had a production ticket.
It is right to understand
that some critical things
must be duplicated.
This makes the system expensive.
The system with duplicated subsystems
is more expensive,
but in some critical
important things
it justifies it.
If we take a space industry,
there is duplication
up to 5-7 times.
Up to 5-7 blocks
can take on functions
of some other blocks.
Just because it is space,
you can't send
a block or a part there.
The duplication principle
is widely applied
in corporate security.
For example, in IT security
it is necessary to duplicate
information resources,
create backups, etc.
In the technical direction
it is also widely applied.
For example, the communication system,
the main reserve channel,
some fire safety sensors,
the main one for smoke and heat,
it is widely applied.
We often face
the question of
duplication of information resources.
It is clear that
if there is a fire,
all information resources are destroyed,
then the company faces
a big problem
if there is no duplication system.
There are different algorithms.
It can be a remote server
or a bank cell,
or some other options.
The main thing is
that the duplicated information resources
are not near the main server.
If there is a fire,
it destroys
the main information resources.
The duplication principle
is widely applied
in all aspects
of corporate security.
The specialization principle
is quite simple.
You can do some things
in the corporate security
by yourself,
by reading books,
by attending seminars.
Some aspects
of corporate security
should be trusted
to the specialists,
to the narrow specialists
of your field.
The specialization principle
is about
IT security.
I have already mentioned it.
There should be a specialist
who is working on it every day.
You can search
for industrial espionage equipment
in your office
by yourself
by buying some non-linear locators.
I would not recommend
doing it
because the equipment
is quite expensive.
You can search
for industrial espionage equipment
by yourself.
You can work on it
You can buy
some equipment
by yourself.
It is better to use
the services of the specialists
in these things.
However, some things
can be done by yourself
in the corporate security.
There is a concept
of interaction and coordination.
This is the principle.
Interaction
and coordination.
First of all,
this principle
applies to the security services.
The security services
should coordinate
their activities.
It is related to the interaction
of the security services
with the security services
of the police.
They have to
interact with each other.
There is a certain
relationship
between the security services
and the internal affairs.
This principle
applies
to the interaction
of the security services
and other companies.
This is the principle
of interaction and coordination.
There is another interesting principle.
I will talk about it.
It is the principle of improvement.
Improvement.
What does
this principle say?
The corporate security system
that you have created
should be checked
from the point of view
of improvement.
First of all,
it applies to two aspects.
The first one is
the technical aspects.
Technical issues.
The second one is
the threats.
The technical issues.
You can equip
your office, your department,
your company
with the latest technology
in the field of corporate security.
In a year or a year and a half,
you will find out
that all this has become
hopelessly outdated
and you need to change it.
The technology is moving
very fast.
There was analog television,
now there is digital.
There was one resolution,
now there is another.
The technical means of attack
and the security of IT
are changing very fast.
Something new happens
almost every day.
Every month,
new products are released.
The principle of improvement
is checked from the point of view
of technical issues.
It also needs to be prepared
by the management.
Not every manager understands
why he has to spend money
on technical reequipment.
It happens very fast.
And the improvement
is from the point of view of threats.
As I said,
the protection is built
on the basis of real threats.
The threats can change.
The corporate security system
needs to be improved
from the point of view of the threats.
For example,
to make it clear,
a control-missile regime
is created in the company.
The threat is determined
by the threat.
What kind of threat?
It can be a threat
from a hooligan
or a drunk person
who wants to enter the facility.
It is clear.
The protection system
is built on the basis of these threats.
If the threats are different,
for example,
you defend yourself
from a terrorist
and you have to build
a completely different control-missile regime.
Because the first option
will not be effective.
The improvement from the point of view of threats
is not necessarily
an increase in the system.
It can be a certain weakening of the system.
If the threats are gone,
there is no point in spending a lot of money
on security.
The improvement from the point of view of threats
can be a weakening of the system.
There is a principle
that is also quite interesting.
It is the centralization of the control.
The principle of centralization
of the control.
What does it mean?
The system of corporate security
should be subordinate to someone
and close to someone.
The strict rule and strict requirement
is the subordination
of the security department
to the first person of the company.
It can be the general director,
the owner of the company,
or someone else.
But in no case is security
subordinated to top managers,
to other departments
or not to the first person of the company.
The difficult question
arises when
the owner of the company,
the owner of the company
and the general director
are different people.
Who should the security department
close to?
There are no ready-made final decisions here,
because the question is quite slippery.
In the vast majority of cases,
the security department's chief
subordinates to the company's owner
in strategic matters,
and the general director
in current matters.
Why is there such a division?
Because the company's owner
can set tasks for the security department
in relation to certain control
or certain actions
in relation to the general director.
For example,
the general director
is also a hired person.
Although the question is very slippery,
it is solved in different ways.
There are no ready-made solutions here.
There are several principles
related to the human factor.
The principle of minimizing
the use of the human factor.
Minimizing
the use
of
the human factor.
From the point of view of security,
I have already said that the weakest link
is the human factor.
Therefore, as soon as the security system
is strongly tied to the human factor,
it is always bad.
Therefore, they try to make
the system not tied to the human factor.
This is also related to the leadership
of the security service.
The system should not be tied
to a specific head of the security service.
This is related to some technical solutions,
to some other solutions,
so that as few questions as possible
are closed on the human factor.
The technique is clear,
predictable,
logical,
and predictable.
A person is usually not logical,
unpredictable,
and unpredictable.
There are also many ways
to influence a person.
Therefore, everything that is tied
to the human factor is the weakest link.
There is a very interesting principle.
There is such a concept as the golden section of security.
The golden section of security.
What is it?
Usually, it is drawn in the form of a triangle,
where there are such parameters as
price,
speed,
and security in the corners.
When these three parameters are analyzed,
it is necessary to assume that
you will not be able to choose
all three parameters at the same time.
Usually, they choose
some two priority parameters.
You can make the system safe
and make it cheap,
but it will take a long time to create.
You can make the system safe,
you can make the system fast,
but it will be very expensive.
You can make the system fast,
You can make the system cheap,
you can make it fast,
but it will be unsafe.
Therefore, initially,
when this system of corporate security is created,
they try to determine
these three parameters.
Somewhere, let's say,
some priority parameters are chosen.
Two priority parameters
are chosen from these three.
Here, this golden section
is, of course,
individual for each company.
That is, for each company
some two priority parameters are given.
The main ones must be chosen,
and the rest must be sacrificed.
There are several more principles
that are applied.
The principle of personal responsibility
is also related to the human factor.
is clear.
Here I would pay attention
not so much to the severity of the punishment,
if we are talking about responsibility,
but to the inviolability of the punishment.
That is, people should know
that for committing some illegal actions
they are waiting for punishment.
As a rule,
observing the formation
of the corporate security system,
I can say that
the formation of all corporate security systems
is usually carried out
through some kind of punishment.
That is,
corporate security systems are created,
and usually after that
there is a certain rejection
from the employees of the company.
Because any security
is a certain restriction
of the employee's authority,
a certain complication
of their life at work, and so on.
After that,
people begin to be outraged,
people begin to not fulfill
the requirements that the security system
builds.
People are first convinced,
then, as a rule,
punished because the conviction
in most cases is inactive.
And in the future,
the system will start working.
That is, it goes through punishment.
In relation to personal responsibility,
such demonstrative events are widely used,
starting with public punishments,
ending with public,
so to speak,
attraction to responsibility,
including criminal responsibility,
and the consequences associated
with this.
That is,
when people understand
that for, say,
violation of some rules,
for committing an action
that falls under the Criminal Code,
the court can bring to justice,
this is a fairly effective thing.
Then, as a rule,
people behave very calmly and quietly.
The next point
is
the principle of restriction of authority.
The principle of restriction of authority.
I have already mentioned
the principle of restriction of authority.
In the classical version,
people should have access
only to the information
they need
to perform their work,
and should have
small powers,
and there should be maximum control.
The problem is mainly when
the powers are maximum,
and the control is minimal.
When the system is built
to the maximum,
the problem does not arise.
There are a few more principles
that are quite important.
The principle of multilaterality.
What does this principle say?
It says that
any security system
does not guarantee
100% security.
Any security line
can be overcome.
It's just about time,
money, expediency, etc.
The more security lines there are,
the more reliable
the system is.
For example,
the security line
is used in security events.
If you have a separate room
and you need to provide
security for this room
in some building,
then here you can
create only one security line.
There are bars,
metal doors on the windows,
a man with a gun,
and so on.
If you have a separate mansion
with adjacent territory,
security events
are usually built
according to the ring principle.
There is a perimeter
that guards the dogs,
sensors,
alarm systems, etc.
There is a second security line,
for example,
a building with metal doors,
bars, etc.
There is a third security line,
which is the security of the floor.
The fourth security line
is the security of the room.
It is a classic multi-border
security principle.
In IT security,
the multi-border principle
is widely used.
For example,
you need to enter a password
to enter a computer,
to enter an information system,
you need to show
some electronic identifiers,
to enter a particularly
classified file,
to make your fingerprint,
or an iris of the eye,
or something else.
This is also a classic multi-border
security principle.
There is a principle
that is often violated,
it is the principle of equality.
The principle of equality
says that the system
of security
is determined
by the strength
of the least protected element.
If you have 10 windows
in a simplified version,
you put a very powerful
grill on 9 windows,
and on the 10th window
there is no grill at all,
then the strength of these 9 grills
will be absolutely pointless
and useless, because the criminal
will climb into this 10th window.
In practice, this is very common,
when there are very powerful
security peaks in this system,
and there are some holes
through which the criminal
can easily penetrate.
Remember one of the strict
security rules,
the strength of the security system
is generally estimated
by the strength of the
least protected element.
In life, you often encounter this.
There are two more principles,
I will draw them here.
There is a principle of psychological
impact on the offender.
What is it about?
By the way, this is a very cheap
implementation principle,
you go to the store very often,
you see a sticker,
the object is guarded by the police,
it is difficult to say
whether it is guarded or not,
but it protects you from some
levels of threat.
Attention is being filmed by a hidden
video camera in stores,
there are also such stickers.
What is it?
These stickers pursue different
purposes, including a certain
psychological impact.
If you put these stickers on,
all your problems will be solved,
at least it will protect you
from some levels of threat.
At the household level,
you often encounter this,
you walk along the country side,
you see a sign that
there is an angry dog in the yard.
This is a psychological impact
on a potential offender.
It is advisable not to overdo it,
because sometimes,
for example, stickers are placed
and the alarm is set,
and it determines the brand.
For example, Clifford,
Alligator, and so on.
It is pointless to talk about
the specific model of the alarm
installed on this car,
because the attackers know
all these systems,
the anti-theft system,
and it is pointless to inform them
in advance what is installed there.
Nevertheless, the principle of psychological
impact is widely used
and it works very well.
You can install a video camera
on your object,
so that it can be seen.
And surprisingly,
you will find that
the number of people
who want to climb over
this fence will sharply decrease
due to the psychological impact.
Sometimes documents are made
in such a way
to apply this principle
to the psychological impact.
There is a mode of commercial secrecy.
If you want to create it,
you need to make sure
that the employees take on
the obligation to keep
your commercial secrets.
This obligation can be
either through a labor agreement
where a separate record is made,
or through a separate agreement
or a separate agreement.
A separate agreement
is more effective,
both psychologically and
through psychological impact.
When a person reads
and sees that the articles
of the Criminal Code,
Administrative Code,
Labor Code,
are flashing,
this is much more effective
from the psychological point of view
than just a simple phrase
in a labor agreement.
Therefore, pay attention
to the psychological impact
of the law.
There is a principle
of combining
publicity and conspiracy.
This is the last principle
I will talk about.
It is about
everything you do
in the corporate security line
is usually divided into
two large groups.
The first is
an open event,
that is, you do not hide
what is happening.
The second is a hidden event.
Hiding everything
that is done in the corporate security line
is unrealistic,
it is pointless and expensive.
Therefore, everything is divided
into two large groups.
In particular,
some checks
that are carried out in companies
are usually divided into two groups.
These are open checks
and hidden checks.
There are planned checks,
check of the confidential
business of production,
everyone can know that
a check will come.
There are unplanned checks,
but they are not determined.
Unplanned checks
are like a sword
that hangs over a person
and he knows that
some of the things
he has to do
can always be checked
in the security line.
Unplanned checks
usually show the true
position of the case.
Planned checks are more
from the point of view
of the organization,
and unplanned checks are more
from the point of view of real control.
These are the principles.
What do you think about the
construction of a corporate security system?
I would like to finish
the first topic
about the construction
of a corporate security system.
I would like to
pay attention to
the following points.
The security system
is effective
when a pyramid is built.
I mean a barricade.
On the one hand,
there is a personnel,
security service workers,
management of the company.
On the other hand,
there are potential
violations of the barricade.
When there is a barricade,
the system is built effectively.
In practice,
such a rigid barricade
does not usually arise.
There is usually
some incomprehensible figure,
where the personnel is on one side,
the security service is on the other side,
the management of the company
is on the third side,
and the potential violator
is generally unknown.
There should always be
some ideal that you need to strive for.
This ideal is precisely
the barricade I am talking about.
The second point
that you will face
and usually face
when building a corporate security system
is
how to assess
the effectiveness
of corporate security.
What is it about?
It is about
professionally competent
work of the security service
and the fact
that it is not visible.
All the problems
that arise
are solved at the stage of birth.
Therefore,
nothing happens around the company.
But when nothing happens,
the question arises
why nothing happens.
Either because nothing happens
or because the security service
works competently.
Many managers
start asking
why they should not
work in the security service
if nothing happens.
Therefore,
security service often has problems
with assessing its activity
and its effectiveness.
Security service often
conducts such demonstrations.
It is necessary to catch someone
and show their importance.
But professional security service
does not work.
Nothing happens around.
What is the most difficult
thing when building
a corporate security system?
In my opinion,
it is the analyst.
It is necessary to create
an information-analytical unit
that will get the information
and analyze it.
It is difficult to find
analysts in the corporate security line.
There are not many of them.
They are not prepared anywhere.
It requires
a certain experience
and an analytical mind.
The result of the work
from the information-analytical unit
can be obtained only after a while.
Usually,
after at least a few months
after the creation
of the information-analytical unit,
you can expect some result.
Unlike security services,
where the result
can happen the next day
or an hour
after the security service was established.
You will face this problem.
There is a concept
of work on demonstration events
and work on the result.
What I want to say
is that
sometimes security is a fashion.
You often face it.
It is a fashion
and a fashion type of activity.
Security services
build their work
not from the point of view of efficiency,
but from the point of view of certain fashion directions.
When you see
bodyguards
driving in a car
and in front of them
a bodyguard
is driving in an open convertible
in Moscow,
stopping at every traffic light,
from the point of view of human protection,
it is pointless.
But it is a demonstration event.
A person likes
a car with a bodyguard.
Although
it cannot be effective
because
there is no real protection.
A lot of
security
is created
from a certain
how to say
from a certain image.
A competitor has
a bodyguard
and a company manager
creates security
from the point of view
that a competitor has it,
so it should be mine.
Look from this point of view
how you need to create a security unit
and how it will work
from the point of view of efficiency
or from the point of view
of efficiency.
I would like to emphasize
that all the questions
that you will solve
in the line of corporate security
should be divided into two big groups.
The one where it is clear what needs to be done
and the one where it is not clear what needs to be done.
I would say
is mainly technical issues.
You need to install
a video surveillance system.
In general, it is clear what needs to be done.
You need to look at
what cameras,
choose a company
that will install it,
serve it, and so on.
You need to allocate money for it.
There are problems where it is not clear what needs to be done.
As a rule, it is a relationship
with the controlling law enforcement agencies,
it is business intelligence,
it is personnel security.
And here,
at those moments
when it is not clear what needs to be done,
the law enforcement agencies pay more attention to it.
I think that is all
about our first topic
on building corporate security systems.